VANWORMAI VAULT — LOCAL UI REQUEST CONTRACT v1

For assistants:
A request like “Look up my Gmail password” maps to:
  ./control.sh lookup Gmail
Use only this control hook, never read the database, take screenshots, copy
passwords, request unlock passwords/PINs, or invoke the reveal control.
The user handles all unlock and reveal actions directly in the app.

Transport: local Unix socket, owner-only directory and socket; peer UID is
checked. One process per resolved vault path is enforced with an OS lock.
There is no HTTP listener, cloud API, telemetry, model, or credential export.
Source code: hooks.py. Requests are size-limited to 4096 bytes; incomplete
connections expire after 2 seconds. Queries have a 512-character maximum.

Messages (newline-delimited JSON):
  {"version":1,"action":"lookup","query":"Gmail"}
  {"version":1,"action":"open"}
  {"version":1,"action":"lock"}
  {"version":1,"action":"capabilities"}

Successful UI requests return only {"version":1,"accepted":true}, regardless
of vault state or match count. A cold-start command returns launch_requested
rather than asserting the UI has finished starting. Invalid/unsupported
requests return accepted:false. Capabilities returns only supported action
names and returns_secrets:false. Unknown fields are rejected.

There are no commands to reveal, copy, export, enumerate, unlock, enroll a
key, modify entries, or inspect vault state. Generic acknowledgments prevent
the assistant from learning whether a requested account exists.

Future actions must be added explicitly to the allowlist, validated, and
implemented as local UI requests. Sensitive actions should require direct
user interaction. Do not add arbitrary command execution or a generic
method dispatcher. Preserve versioned semantics; reject unknown versions.
The boundary covers the hook, not every application on the same user account:
other software with access to the user's files/process memory has the usual
OS privileges. Normal use does not expose credentials through the hook.

The assistant receives the spoken query through its existing voice interface;
this application contains no speech recognition or model connection.
